# Humoral correlates of protection against Mycobacterium tuberculosis following intravenous Bacille Calmette-Guérin vaccination in rhesus macaques

Edward B. Irvine, Patricia A. Darrah, Shu Wang, Chuangqi Wang, Mario Roederer, Robert A. Seder, Douglas A. Lauffenburger, JoAnne L. Flynn, Sarah M. Fortune, and Galit Alter

Altering the route of immunization of Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) immunization from low-dose intradermal vaccination to high-dose intravenous (IV) injection resulted in a high level of protection against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection, providing an opportunity to uncover immune correlates and mechanisms of protection. Beyond the traditionally accepted role for T cells in controlling Mtb infection, IV BCG vaccination was associated with a robust expansion of local humoral immune responses that tracked with bacterial control. However, given the near complete protection afforded by high-dose IV BCG immunization, a precise correlate of immune protection was difficult to define. Here we leveraged plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) from a cohort of rhesus macaques that received decreasing doses of IV BCG, and aimed to define the correlates of immunity across macaques that experienced immune protection or breakthrough infection following Mtb challenge. We show an IV BCG dose-dependent induction of Mtb-specific humoral immune responses, both in the plasma and the airways. Moreover, antibody responses at peak immunogenicity significantly predicted bacterial control following challenge. Multivariate analyses revealed antibody-mediated complement and NK cell activating humoral networks as key functional signatures associated with protective immunity. Collectively, this work extends our understanding of humoral biomarkers and potential mechanisms of IV BCG mediated protection against Mtb.
